=== ssl certificates ===

ssl certificates can contain some important information about the target.

One example is [[https://crt.sh/?q=github.com|this search]] about the github DNS certificates which contains multiple websites that are not listed on search engines, which could be attack vectors
(crt.sh also allows for the flag "output=json" for easier filtering of the info)

For DNSs is important to know the following info

====common types====
RECORD TYPE => DESCRIPTION
A => Maps a domain to an IPv4 address.
AAAA => Maps a domain to an IPv6 address.
CNAME => Aliases one domain name to another.
MX => Directs email to mail servers.
NS => Specifies the authoritative nameserver for a domain.
SOA => Contains administrative information about the domain, like the primary nameserver and zone update settings.
TXT => Stores text information, often used for verification.
SRV => Specifies a service location for certain services, like servers handling VoIP.
PTR => Maps an IP address to a domain name for reverse DNS lookups.

====uncommon types====
AFSDB => Specifies the location of Andrew File System (AFS) cells.
ATMA => Maps a domain name to an ATM address used for ATM networks.
CAA => Specifies which certificate authorities (CAs) are allowed to issue certificates for a domain.
CERT => Stores certificates and certificate-related information, such as public keys.
DHCID => Used in DHCP to associate DNS names with dynamically assigned IP addresses.
DNAME => Provides redirection of a subtree of the DNS namespace to another domain.
DNSKEY => Contains public keys used to verify DNSSEC signatures.
DS => Used in DNSSEC to identify a DNSKEY record in the delegated zone.
HINFO => Provides information about the hardware and operating system used by a host.
ISDN => Stores ISDN addresses associated with a domain name.
MB, MG, MINFO, MR => Legacy records related to mailbox information, with specific uses for mapping and informational purposes.
NAPTR => Used for Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) and E.164 Number Mapping (ENUM) applications to define rules for rewriting domain names.
NSAP => Maps a domain name to an NSAP address used in OSI networks.
NSEC => Used in DNSSEC to prove the non-existence of a DNS record by listing the next record in the zone.
NSEC3 => An enhanced version of NSEC for DNSSEC that includes hashed domain names to prevent enumeration.
NSEC3PARAM => Stores parameters for NSEC3 records, including hashing algorithms and iterations.
RP => Provides information about the person responsible for a domain, including contact details.
RRSIG => Contains a cryptographic signature used to verify DNSSEC-signed data.
RT => Specifies a route through a specific intermediate host, used for non-IP networks.
TLSA => Links a domain name with a TLS certificate, used in DNS-based Authentication of Named Entities (DANE).
X25 => Stores an X.25 network address used in older packet-switched networks.

